So what can we do with this relative positioning now?
Attached you can again find this starting code right here,
this is actually the same code we had to get a better understanding of the fixed positioning
and as we know the code, as you can see right here, it's the same we have before,
why don't we just start and add the relative position to our first child,
so to this navigation bar right here.
Well let's do that by adding the parent class selector and now child one, class selector again
and now I want to add position relative, like that. If we do that and you saw that already in the project,
nothing changes
basically, the element stays or behaves the same way it did before when we didn't apply that value.
We saw though in the project also that with this position property, we can of course change the positioning
context of other elements,
so of children of this element but as we don't have any children right here,
there is not a lot that we can change right now.
But the cool thing is that if we now go back and add for example top let's say 50 pixels and left 50
pixels, like that, then we can see that the element suddenly moves and why is this happening?
Well we saw for the fixed and absolute values that the elements are taken out of the document flow and then
positioned relatively to the viewport or as we saw it, to the HTML element or to the closest ancestor which
has the position property applied. For the relative value,
this is different because the positioning context is the element itself and at the same time, the element
is also not taken out of the document flow.
So what basically happened right here with our element is that we moved it down from its initial position,
which was right here by 50 pixels from the top and then 50 pixels from the left,
that's really important. With the relative value,
you simply push your element from the current position down from the top by 50 pixels and from the left
by 50 pixels.
So if you would apply right 50 pixels
now, let's do this quickly,
like that and reload the page, then you can see that the element moves from the right to the left by
50 pixels. So that's important to keep in mind, for the fixed and absolute values,
the top, left, bottom and right properties specify a distance to the parent element basically,
so to the containing block
but for the relative positioning, this simply defines how this element should move from the current position.
And as we can move the element basically wherever we want to,
so we could also add top 300 pixels right here,
well this can lead to the following situation.
We basically move the relative element right here out of the actual parent,
so of our parent class right here.
Now you might want this behavior but there are probably situations where you say yes I want to move my
element a little bit to the left, to the right, to the bottom, wherever but I want to make sure that it
doesn't leave this parent or at least that it's not visible anymore
as soon as it leaves the parent element right here. Now in the next video, I will show you how you can
quickly solve this issue
but also a problem that you can have depending on the element type your parent has.